---
layout: post
title: Week two
---

My second week of Software Engineering was quite interesting. We spent much time learning about the technicalities of operators in Python and Javascript. We learned about the difference between an lvalue and rvalue. An lvalue is basically a variable that exists beyond the expression it is involved in. An rvalue is a temporary value whose existence does not extend past the expression. This came up quite frequently with determining which operators accepted which values and which ones returned which values, if they returned anything. I am very familiar with mathematical expressions and the use of operators in other programming languages but I did not realize how important the specifics can be. I was surprised to find out that the “==” operator with two lists in Python actually compares the values inside of the lists rather than their addresses. That is the complete opposite from Java, which is a language I am very familiar with. Knowing these details will definitely prove to be of use in the future.

Another very cool thing we learned about was generators.  In Python, generators are the machinery that produces certain values based on the provided function it was given. In other words, it is an iterator that produces values only when it needs to. Generators are of use when creating lists whose values are produced from very specific logic. From what I have learned so far, I feel like Python is a language that provides programmers with many different ways of coding. As Professor Downing described it, Python is providing us with many different legos and we have the ability to build with them. I personally feel more creative and having more freedom with my code when writing in Python because of that very reason. 

Tip of the week: This is another tip for Windows users. If you haven’t already, I would recommend downloading WinSCP. This program is free and makes file transfer between your local computer and a remote computer very easy. I usually do all of my programming projects on my Windows computer. Since all UTCS classes require the assignments to run on the lab machines, when I am finished with the assignment, I bring up WinSCP, transfer all of my files over to the Linux machines and run the program instantly. 
