---
layout: post
title: Week one
---

  My first week in Software Engineering was a success. I learned a few new tools for software development, two scripting languages, and several strategies for improving my college experience. In the first lecture, after the initial Syllabus introduction, Professor Downing began discussing our first project: Collatz. The main purpose of this assignment is to familiarize ourselves with important software development tools. The first tool is called Travis CI, a service that easily integrates with GitHub to build and test projects. Coverage is an analysis tool used to measure what percentage of our code was tested via test cases. Unittest is the testing framework for the test cases. Pydoc is a very useful tool for code documentation. Lastly, GitHub is used for editing our project. All of these tools except for GitHub were new to me. After spending a few days working on the project, I have found that these tools are very useful for software productivity. 
  
  The Project programming objective is to solve the 3n+1 problem proposed on Sphere Online Judge in Python. I had never programmed in Python or any scripting language before, so this was also an important learning experience for me. Professor Downing walked us through many exercises during class to help us learn Python in an interactive way. These exercises consisted of Python programs that represented many useful features of the language. So far, I have found Python to be very intuitive and programmer friendly. We were taught about one particular Python built-in function called range which returns a list of numbers based on a starting argument, stopping argument, and a step argument. I think this is one of the most useful built-in functions we have learned about so far because it is very applicable to coding techniques that are often used such as for loops. 
  
  We also began learning about the scripting language JavaScript. On last Wednesday and Friday, Professor Downing used those class periods to draw comparisons between JS and Python. He presented a program to us written in Python, we would discuss how it functioned, and then he would present the very same program except written in JS. This technique was very helpful with providing us intuition about both languages. I found the lecture on throwing exceptions to be very useful. The “try except” statement in Python and its equivalent “try catch” statement in JS is a basic programmer necessity for handling thrown exceptions. 
  
Having learned a vast amount of knowledge after just one week in Software Engineering, I am very much looking forward to the weeks ahead. 

Tip of the week: If you are programming from Windows, downloading the GitHub application for Windows is very useful. It provides easy access to all of your GitHub repos and you can easily edit, commit, and push your files without using the command line. https://windows.github.com/

