---
layout: post
title: Week six
---

I had a lot going on this week! In Monday's class, Professor Downing continued teaching us about SQL terms and implementation. We had a few interactive exercises where he would give us a problem to solve in SQL and we would work with our classmates to come up with a solution. I surprisingly find SQL a bit confusing. I am having a hard time grasping the “database” way of thinking about things. I definitely need to practice some more outside of class.

On Wednesday, we had two surprise guest lecturers from Atlassian. They talked about what they were working on and how their team process for reaching project goals is. It was very cool to hear about what the Industry is like. Professor Downing has been assigning us readings this semester that are about techniques used in the Computer Science work field. It was nice to hear that actual Industry programmers are applying the techniques we’ve been reading about. 

Unfortunately, I had to miss class on Friday. I hope to make up for the class I missed though by going over the examples Professor Downing went over in class. 

The group project is going very well. We finished a couple of hours before the deadline. Much better than last week! I’ve been dipping my head into a little bit of everything with this project. There is so much to be done and I really want to have a little part in everything. 

Tip of the week: Python has this cool module called “subprocess”. Subprocess does exactly what it sounds like it does: It spawns a subprocess that runs the commands you pass in as arguments to the call function. This is the module I used in order to run the tests from the about page. When the user clicks on the “run” button, I start the make test subprocess and print the results of running the tests.
